The next step is to download real data and
see if magic happens.
For that,
we need to go to the network, okay?
And to go to a network,
the good news is that Flutter
is actually giving us one solution, okay?
We do have an HTTP tool to go and
grab this, so
we don't need to use
an external framework.
But it's not included with
our project by default.
So we need to make a really,
really, really tiny process here.
So that process is we need to
open our pubspec.yaml, that file.
And in the pubspec.yaml,
there is a section
at the top that says dependencies,
that one.
So we are going to add a dependency.
How to add the dependency here?
So right now, the dependency is flutter.
Yeah, we know we're using flutter.
So at the same level of flutter, we are
going to add the name of the dependency.
What's the name, http:.
What's the colon for?
After the colon,
you can express one special version,
one specific version of that library.
But I want the latest one,
so just http: save.
And you will see at the bottom right,
the IDE will start downloading
that package, that's all.
This is again like package JSON,
like doing MPM install, http package.
So now we are ready to write our code for
this.
Okay, so now we have the data model,
we are actually rendering some
dummy items on the screen.
We need a place first to
contain all the products.
So our model needs another place,
like a view model,
a data manager, another class that
will actually be responsible for
holding all the products in our menu and
also the cart.
So I'm going to create another file that I
would call that the datamanager.dart.
So the data manager will also be a class,
DataManager.
And remember that you
can move this around,
this little flexible
pop-up panel from Flutter.
I know I need two things.
I need a list of category.
The category has the products inside.
So we have coffee, tea, frappuccinos,
and those are the categories.
And we have products inside and
that's gonna be the menu.
But because that menu can actually,
it's going to come from the network,
I will need, first, let me import the data
model so it's not giving me any error.
And I would probably say for
now that at first it might not be there,
so I'm adding that question mark.
Remember, that means it's optional.
And also I will make it private.
So _menu.
Because I will have a getter later because
I will need to fetch the data, okay?
So I will say that, again, if I don't
have the data, I will get it later,
that's kind of the idea.
And then I have a list of items
in cart that is like our cart.
And they're gonna start
this is an empty array.
I don't need that to be private.
I can, but I think it's fine,
it's not a big deal.
And now, I'm going to add a couple of
functions that we will use later in
the cart for a simple logic function
such as adding something to the cart.
Of course,
I can do this in a separate file.
I can do two data managers, one for
the cart and one for the menu.
But just to keep things simple here,
I have a cartRemove,
And then I can have a cartClear that will
clear the whole cart and maybe a total.
So we can actually get
a double as an answer.
Okay, so I mean, the amount of money,
the total for the order.
So for the add, and
we are receiving the product, and
it's not just adding that into
the array because we have a type issue.
The product is the product and
this is an item in cart.
If you remember, item in cart has
a product and a quantity, okay, so
it's not as simple as just
adding it to the array.
We actually need to do
something such as check first
if we have it, so
I'm going to search in every item.
In fact, it's a good moment to actually
go over some basic loops here.
So if the product,
we can check the ID or just the product,
it doesn't matter, is the same as
the one that you're asking for to add.
It means that the product that I'm
adding is already in the cart,
so I just need to increase
the quantity by 1, okay?
So we are adding products one by one.
So I will take the item.quantity++,
make sense?
And I will say that I have just found it,
so there is no need to add it.
Because now I will say if it's not found,
what I need is to create a new item
in cart for that particular product.
So I will say cart.add,
we add a new item in cart.
Remember we don't use a new key word.
And it has the product that is p,
and the quantity that is 1.
What happens if I add new here?
You receive a warning say,
hey, unnecessary new keyword.
And I know that your brain says that is
not unnecessary, I need a new, but anyway.
So we don't need a new, okay?
Cool, so that's add, that's pretty simple.
Remove, I think it should be even
simpler because we can do some kind of
functional programming.
So we can removeWhere,
I received a lambda expression.
I receive an element or
an item in the cart and
I need to say if I wanna remove that or
not.
And I will check if the product.id
is equal to the ID of
the product that you're
sending me as an argument.
Makes sense?
cartClear, will just clear the cart,
that's simple.
And cartTotal is just a basic,
have a semicolon here missing.
This is just plain algorithm
programming from programming 101, but
we just need to go over all
the items on create calculation and
total, let's call it total.
And we will go through all the items.
For each item in the cart,
we're going to say
that total += item.quantity multiplied by
the price of the product,
and then in returning total.
And I will still have problems here,
types problem.
Let's see if you know what's going on.
It says a value of type int can't be
returned from the method cartTotal.
But it's a no, I want to double, why?
It's complaining this int, say what?
>> You got int run in doubles.
>> I have integers, but
why do I have an integer, right?
I'm using implicit type here and
I'm starting with a 0.
And by default, you think it's double.
So sometimes,
implicit typing gets you in trouble.
So there are two ways
to solve the problem.
One is instead of var,
I can explicitly put the type int,
I'm sorry, double, not int,
or you can keep the bar.
I'm forced to double by saying 0.0.
I have a missing semicolon as well and
now I think we are good.
We're good to go with the file, okay?
But is this downloading
data from the network?
No, not yet.
But before doing that,
going back to our main.dart,
we try to remember that we have,
let's go full screen.
We have pages here,
menu, offers, and order.
So who needs the data manager for
rendering the contents?
It seems like the MenuPage because
it's going to render the menu, and
the OrderPage because it's
going to render the cart.
So what I need then is to
hold that data manager
here in the app or in the homepage, okay?
Make sense?
So you pick where.
You can probably put it at the top
level app, or at the homepage,
in this case are two widgets, okay?
But if you put it at the top,
you need to start passing it by.
Make sense?
It's the same.
So someone needs to
actually hold the variable.
It's better if it's an StatefulWidget
because changing that will
probably trigger some changes in the UI.
Make sense?
So for example, I can add that
into the State of HomePageState.
There is no need to do it here, okay?
As I mentioned before,
we can also do it somewhere else.
We can also do it page by page.
But if you do it page by page,
we have a problem because each page
will have its own data manager.
So they're not going to share data.
And I have the cart in one side,
so the menu is adding to the cart.
So I need that data to go to the cart,
to the OrdersPage.
So what I need then is that both sections,
Menu and Order to share the data.
So I need to store the data in a widget
up in the top level that can access both.
Does it make sense?
So for example,
we can add the data manager.
Here I'm going to create a new one.
The data manager is just the class that
we have just created that has the list
inside.
And then I need to pass them by argument
to the menu, you pass down into the tree.
How to do that?
Well, in the MenuPage, I need a property.
A final property, DataManager.
Does it makes sense?
So I'm going to receive it,
it's of type DataManager.
And I'm going to receive
it as an argument.
So I will say required this.dataManager
with a lowercase here.
Like so and
I probably I need to import, sorry,
have a type okay I'm writing
a different language.
It's dataManager, like so.
Okay, now it's working.
So on something similar, we need for
the orders page even if it's
empty at this point, okay?
The OrderPage, I need to receive
the same property dataManager.
I need to import the library, and
then I need to received that
here required this.dataManager.
The final step is to
pass them by argument.
I'm just passing objects from one
object to another object, okay?
Does it make sense?
So it's saying that now it's
not a constant anymore.
Make sense?
Because I'm passing an argument.
So that OrderPage or those menu page
might not be the same every time so
I cannot add the const declaration,
the const prefix.